Steps for creating and running the project:
1. Execute  accumguojohns_addedFKconstraints.sql to create the schema of ‘accumguojohns’ which includes all the data and tables used within the project.
2. Execute create_guest.sql to be able to log into the database as a guest, using the username: guest and the password: guest_user, otherwise use root user and root user password to login as DBA.
3. Run db.jar file within command prompt to access front end of the project.
   1. Enter username and password when prompted.
      1. Guest Account:
         1. Username: guest
         2. Password: guest_account
      1. DBA 
         1. Username: root
         2. The same password as used to login as a root user
1. As DBA enter one of the following:
   1. Q -- to enter a SQL statement
   2. P -- to view pending approvals
      1. E -- to show guest_user requests to edit a paper
      2. A -- to show guest_user requests to add an article
      3. K -- to show guest_user requests to add a keyword
      4. P -- to show guest_user requests to add a paper
      5. D -- to show guest_user requests to delete a paper
   1. A -- to perform admin functions
      1. A -- add an article
         1. Follow steps on screen to add an article to the database.
      1. P -- add a paper
         1. Follow steps on screen to add a paper to the database.
      1. D -- delete a paper
         1. Follow steps on screen to delete a paper from the database.
            1. Triggers will be activated here to delete corresponding journals, articles, and authors.
      1. K -- add a keyword
         1. Follow the steps on the screen to add a keyword with a corresponding paper_id to the database.
      1. C -- add a citation
         1. Follow the steps on the screen to add a citation with a corresponding paper_id to the database.
   1. Z -- to quit
1. As a guest_user:
   1. Q -- to enter a query
      1. P -- to query for a paper
         1. T -- to query a paper by the paper’s title
            1. Follow steps on screen to continue
         1. A -- to query a paper by the paper’s author
            1. Follow steps on screen to continue
         1. K -- to query a paper by a keyword
            1. Follow steps on screen to continue
         1. J -- to query a paper by a journal
            1. Follow steps on screen to continue
      1. Au -- to query for an author
         1. Enter author’s name to get information about them
      1. Art -- to query for an article
         1. T -- query an article by it’s title
            1. Follow steps on screen to continue
         1. W -- query an article by it’s writer
            1. Follow steps on screen to continue
         1. P -- query an article by the paper(s) it cites
            1. Follow steps on screen to continue
   1. R -- to request an update
      1. D -- request to delete a paper
         1. Enter the paper_id of which paper is to be looked at for deletion
         2. Enter the reason for deletion of said paper
      1. I -- request to insert a paper or an article
         1. A -- request to add an article
            1. Follow steps on screen to complete suggestion
         1. P -- request to add a paper
            1. Follow steps on screen to complete suggestion
      1. K -- request adding a keyword to a paper
         1. Enter the paper_id of which paper you want to add a keyword to
         2. Enter keyword to be added
      1. E -- request to edit a paper
         1. Enter the paper_id of the paper to be edited
         2. Describe the changes to be made
   1. Z -- to quit


Libraries and Software:
* MySQL -- to run .sql scripts and house the data and schema
* Java -- to run the jar file within the command line
* IntelliJ - IDE used to create the project
   * The program can also be run by opening up the “db” folder in IntelliJ which contains an IntelliJ project. 
Technology Download Pages:
* https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/
   * Used to connect Java to MySQL